# The Hub Framework

I've been interested in UI frameworks because the tools I have used up to date are hell. I don't particularly like UIKit. It has a lot of power, but it's challenging to build applications in for various reasons.

In this post I'm going to explore the framework and its codebase. First I will dive into what it is and how it works. Then I will try to give my answer for the question if I'd use it.

I was a normal dveloper, now I use React Native in a personal project.

I read the guides so that you don't have to.

## Components and Component Operations

These are the two core concepts of the framework[1: according to the documentation]. You can think of it basically as a view.

`Component Operation` is a weird name for a _definition of what should be rendered._

## Why

>Always having to write UIViewControllers from scratch, hard-wiring behaviors and tying specific models to specific views lead to slow iteration times and a lot of duplicate work.

It looks like they couldn't find a good architecture using the standard model so they went and found sometihng else.

>We realized that by building our UIs as "hubs of content" using components as building blocks, and by fully decoupling our model code from our UI using content operations - our app became a lot more dynamic and easier to work with.

## More on components

>Each component instance has a 1:1 relationship with its UIView, and is responsible for rendering a visual representation of a HUBComponentModel. A component can also (optionally) have child components nested within it.

Technically component is a protocol - `HUBComponent`.

```
@protocol HUBComponent <NSObject>

@property (nonatomic, strong, readonly) NSSet<HUBComponentLayoutTrait> *layoutTraits;
@property (nonatomic, strong, nullable) __kindof UIView *view;

- (void)loadView;
- (CGSize)preferredViewSizeForDisplayingModel:(id<HUBComponentModel>)model
                            containerViewSize:(CGSize)containerViewSize;
- (void)prepareViewForReuse;
- (void)configureViewWithModel:(id<HUBComponentModel>)model
             containerViewSize:(CGSize)containerViewSize;

@end
```

You create the view manually in `loadView` and assign it to `view` property.

## Layout

the Hub Framework uses a single source of truth for calculating margins and layout; an implementation of HUBComponentLayoutManager. However, each component is still in control of how it should be laid out, even if it doesn’t compute the absolute metrics.

Every component returns a preferred size for its view and a layout manager along with

HUBComponentViewObserver This enables you to get notified when your component’s view was either resized, or when it appeared on the screen


The same view might be reused with different models and 

## View reuse

There's a view reuse mechanism in the framework. This is a performance optimisation but I wouldn't expect too much out of it. Object allocation is fast. It will probably help you if a view is memory heavy and there would be a lot to re allocate. 

In my opinion it's a major drawback of the system. `prepareForReuse` is error-prone. Every time it is called you have to reset a component to an **invalid** state (everything is zeroed) and then when it's given a model, it has to go back into a valid state. Both operations require a programmer to be cautious.

It will also mean a lot of optionals. In my opinion, the main perk of nullability are non-nullable instances. Here, the type system won't help you, you have to implement a state in which a component won't be rendered anyway (or in other words it will be when you forget).
 
configureViewWithModel binds model with data during rendering time(?).

## Special love for Images

Spotify app has a lot imagery in it. Therefore I'm not surprised to see a built in system for image handling. Basically this is a standarized way to hand images off to components. The mechanism will let the component know when an image has been downloaded.

If you look at the implementation of it, there's nothing particular about it. The real power of it is a unified and straightforward way to handle images.

If your app has a lot of imagery in it, consider a similar mechanism. 




## Where does it take models from?


## Hub Framework, ComponentKit, React Native

https://spotify.github.io/HubFramework/component-programming-guide.html
https://github.com/spotify/HubFramework/blob/8f2b446727cd4ae2f77270d2707119284ecaefe8/sources/HUBCollectionViewLayout.m
https://spotify.github.io/HubFramework/Protocols/HUBComponent.html
